# 1.3 Configure Jenkins User Access
---
## Task
The Nautilus team is integrating Jenkins into their CI/CD pipelines. After setting up a new Jenkins server, they're now configuring user access for the development team, Follow these steps:

1. Click on the Jenkins button on the top bar to access the Jenkins UI. Login with username admin and password Adm!n321.
2. Create a jenkins user named john with the password dCV3szSGNA. Their full name should match John.
3. Utilize the Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy to assign overall read permission to the john user.
4. Remove all permissions for Anonymous users (if any) ensuring that the admin user retains overall Administer permissions.
5. For the existing job, grant john user only read permissions, disregarding other permissions such as Agent, SCM etc.
<details>
  <summary>Click here for solution</summary>

  ## Solution
  1. From Dashboard, go to Manage Jenkins > Users > Create User
  2. Create user john with the given password an full name "John"
  3. Install Matrix Authorization strategy plugin in Manage Jenkins > Plugins > available plugins
  4. Restart Jenkins server
  5. Manage Jenkins > Security set Authorization to Project-based Matrix Authorization Strategy
  6. Add user john, set overall permission to Read
  7. Make sure Anonymous users don't have any permission
  8. Go to Dashboard, click on existing project > configure > Enable project-based security
  9. Set Inheritance strategy to "Do not inherit", add user John and grant read permissions
</details>
