# 1.5 Configure Jenkins Job for Package Installation
---
## Task
Some new requirements have come up to install and configure some packages on the Nautilus infrastructure under Stratos Datacenter. The Nautilus DevOps team installed and configured a new Jenkins server so they wanted to create a Jenkins job to automate this task. Find below more details and complete the task accordingly:

1. Access the Jenkins UI by clicking on the Jenkins button in the top bar. Log in using the credentials: username admin and password Adm!n321.
2. Create a new Jenkins job named install-packages and configure it with the following specifications:
  
  - Add a string parameter named PACKAGE.  
  - Configure the job to install a package specified in the $PACKAGE parameter on the storage server within the Stratos Datacenter.  
<details>
  <summary>Click here for solution</summary>

  ## Solution
  1. From Dashboard > New Item
  2. Create install-packages job as a Freestyle project
  3. In job configuration, check "This project is parameterized"
  4. Click "Add Parameter" > String Parameter and create the PACKAGE parameter
  5. Manage Jenkins > Plugins > Available plugins,
  6. install Publish over ssh(or ssh plugin) + Credentials + Credentials binding
  7. Restart
  8. Manage Jenkins > System > Publish over SSH
  9. Add SSH server and configure for storage server
  10. Manage Jenkins > Credentials, create Credentials
  11. In job configuration > Environment > use secret texts or file, bind username and password to variables
  12. Build step > send files or execute commands over SSH (Or "execute shell script on remote host using SSH" if using SSH plugin)
  13. Under Exec command:
  ```bash
  echo '$SSH_PASS' | sudo -S yum install -y "$PACKAGE"
  ```
  14. Try build to see if it works
</details>
