# 2.3 Jenkins Workspaces
---
## Task
Some developers are working on a common repository where they are testing some features for an application. They are having three branches (excluding the master branch) in this repository where they are adding changes related to these different features. They want to test these changes on Stratos DC app servers so they need a Jenkins job using which they can deploy these different branches as per requirements. Configure a Jenkins job accordingly.

Click on the Jenkins button on the top bar to access the Jenkins UI. Login using username admin and password Adm!n321.

Similarly, click on Gitea button to access the Gitea page. Login to Gitea server using username sarah and password Sarah_pass123.

1. There is a Git repository named web_app on Gitea where developers are pushing their changes. It has three branches version1, version2 and version3 (excluding the master branch). You need not to make any changes in the repository.
2. Create a Jenkins job named app-job.
3. Configure this job to have a choice parameter named Branch with choices as given below:
- version1
- version2
- version3
4. Configure the job to fetch changes from above mentioned Git repository and make sure it should fetches the changes from the respective branch which you are passing as a choice in the choice parameter while building the job. For example if you choose version1 then it must fetch and deploy the changes from branch version1.
5. Configure this job to use custom workspace rather than a default workspace and custom workspace directory should be created under /var/lib/jenkins (for example /var/lib/jenkins/version1) location rather than under any sub-directory etc. The job should use a workspace as per the value you will pass for Branch parameter while building the job. For example if you choose version1 while building the job then it should create a workspace directory called version1 and should fetch Git repository etc within that directory only.
6. Configure the job to deploy code (fetched from Git repository) on storage server (in Stratos DC) under /var/www/html directory. Since its a shared volume.
7. You can access the website by clicking on App button.
<details>
  <summary>Click here for solution</summary>

  ## Solution
  1. Login on Jenkins UI and Gitea, verify the web_app repo exists with all branches
  2. Dashboard > Manage Jenkins > Plugins > Install Git plugin, Publish Over SSH Plugin + Restart
  3. Configure storage server Credentials
  4. Jenkins UI dashboard > New Item > Freestyle project (app-job)
  5. Check "This project is parameterized", add Choice parameters Branch with choices
  6. Set Source code management to Git, add repo http URL, Branch specifier */${Branch}
  7. In Environment > Use secret text or file > username and password (separated) (for vars)
  8. General > advanced > Use custom workspace: /var/lib/jenkins/${Branch}
  9. Add build step > send build over SSH > select storage server
  Set sources files to **/*
  ```bash
  echo "$STORAGE_PASS" | sudo -S sh -c 'rm -rf /var/www/html/* && cp -R ./* /var/www/html/'
  ```
  10. Build the job once and verify on the app UI if it works properly
</details>
