# 2.4 Jenkins Database Backup Job
---
## Task
There is a requirement to create a Jenkins job to automate the database backup. Below you can find more details to accomplish this task:

Click on the Jenkins button on the top bar to access the Jenkins UI. Login using username admin and password Adm!n321.

1. Create a Jenkins job named database-backup.
2. Configure it to take a database dump of the kodekloud_db01 database present on the Database server in Stratos Datacenter, the database user is kodekloud_roy and password is asdfgdsd.
3. The dump should be named in db_$(date +%F).sql format, where date +%F is the current date.
4. Copy the db_$(date +%F).sql dump to the Backup Server under location /home/clint/db_backups.
5. Further, schedule this job to run periodically at */10 * * * * (please use this exact schedule format).

<details>
  <summary>Click here for solution</summary>

  ## Solution
  1. Manage Jenkins > Plugins > Credentials plugins
  2. Manage Jenkins > Credentials > System > Global credentials (unrestricted)
  3. Add credentials for Backup server, Database and Database server
  ```
  Kind: Username with password
  Username: clint
  Password: <look up password in resources>
  ID: backup-clint
  ```
  ```
  Kind: Username with password
  Username: kodekloud_roy
  Password: asdfgdsd
  ID: db-roy
  ```
  ```
  Kind: Username with password
  Username: peter
  Password: <look up password in resources>
  ID: db-peter
  ```
  4. From Dashboard, make database-backup job as a freestyle project
  5. In the job's config, Build triggers > build periodically > */10 * * * *
  6. Environment > Use secret texts or files: bind credentials to environment
  7. Add build step: dump database (Execute shell)
  ```bash
  #!/bin/bash
  set -xe
  
  FILENAME="db_$(date +%F).sql"
  
  sshpass -p "$DB_SSH_PASS" ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no \
  "$DB_SSH_USER"@stdb01.stratos.xfusioncorp.com \
  "mysqldump -u $DB_USER -p\"$DB_PASS\" kodekloud_db01" \
  > "$WORKSPACE/$FILENAME"
  
  ls -l "$WORKSPACE/$FILENAME"
  
  sshpass -p "$BACK_PASS" scp -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no \
  "$WORKSPACE/$FILENAME" \
  "$BACK_USER"@stbkp01.stratos.xfusioncorp.com:/home/clint/db_backups
  ```
  9. Save and build it once to see if everything works
  
  ## Notes:
  At first I used "Publish Over SSH" as a post build Action to send the file from the workspace to the backup server, but this failed for some reason. I suspect it's because of the Source files that only use Ant-style patterns, and somehow I failed in setting it up. In all cases, I opted for the simplest solution and wrote a bash script that uses sshpass for every ssh interaction.
</details>
