# 2.5 Jenkins Scheduled Jobs
---
## Task
The devops team of xFusionCorp Industries is working on to setup centralised logging management system to maintain and analyse server logs easily. Since it will take some time to implement, they wanted to gather some server logs on a regular basis. At least one of the app servers is having issues with the Apache server. The team needs Apache logs so that they can identify and troubleshoot the issues easily if they arise. So they decided to create a Jenkins job to collect logs from the server. Please create/configure a Jenkins job as per details mentioned below:

Click on the Jenkins button on the top bar to access the Jenkins UI. Login using username admin and password Adm!n321

1. Create a Jenkins jobs named copy-logs.
2. Configure it to periodically build every 8 minutes to copy the Apache logs (both access_log and error_logs) from App Server 2 (from default logs location) to location /usr/src/security on Storage Server.

Note:

1. You might need to install some plugins and restart Jenkins service. So, we recommend clicking on Restart Jenkins when installation is complete and no jobs are running on plugin installation/update page i.e update centre. Also, Jenkins UI sometimes gets stuck when Jenkins service restarts in the back end. In this case please make sure to refresh the UI page.
2. Please make sure to define you cron expression like this */10 * * * * (this is just an example to run job every 10 minutes).
<details>
  <summary>Click here for solution</summary>

  ## Solution
  1. Install plugins: SSH Credentials and Credentials binding + Restart
  2. Add SSH credentials for App2 and Storage servers
  3. Create the copy-logs job
  4. Schedule every 8 minutes (*/8 * * * *)
  5. Bind credentials to environment
  6. Add build step > Execute shell
  ```bash
  #!/bin/bash
  set -e
  
  # Timestamp and filenames
  TS=$(date +%F_%H%M)
  
  ACCESS="access_log_${TS}.log"
  ERROR="error_log_${TS}.log"
  
  # Copy logs from App server 2 to Workspace
  sshpass -p "$APP2_PASS" ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no \
  "$APP2_USER"@stapp02.stratos.xfusioncorp.com \
  "echo '$APP2_PASS' | sudo -S cat /var/log/httpd/access_log" > "$WORKSPACE/$ACCESS"
  
  sshpass -p "$APP2_PASS" ssh -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no \
  "$APP2_USER"@stapp02.stratos.xfusioncorp.com \
  "echo '$APP2_PASS' | sudo -S cat /var/log/httpd/error_log" > "$WORKSPACE/$ERROR"
  
  ls -l "$WORKSPACE/$ACCESS" "$WORKSPACE/$ERROR"
  
  # Transfoer logs to Storage server
  sshpass -p "$STOR_PASS" scp -o StrictHostKeyChecking=no \
  "$WORKSPACE/$ACCESS" "$WORKSPACE/$ERROR" \
  "$STOR_USER"@ststor01.stratos.xfusioncorp.com:/usr/src/security/
  ```
  7. Save, Run and verify 

## Notes:
Initially tried to fetch the logs using scp, but hit a permission denied error. sudo -S cat is an effective workaround.
</details>
